---
title: "How to Study More Effectively and Develop Skills"
author: "Ananya Aggarwal"
layout: "post"
---

Studying is incredibly important to academic success. To do well, it's not enough 
to just study hard. You need to study smart. Here are eight tips to make your 
studying more effective.
<!-- more -->


###  Quiz yourself and space out your studying

Refine your ability to retain and recall learned information by testing your own
knowledge through either self-made quizzes or simple strategies such as using
flashcards or writing stuff down. Attempting to retrieve new information you
have learned helps to solidify it in your memory. Spacing out studying also has
been proven to lead to better performance on tests. Students who space out their
chapter quizzes and take them multiple times perform better on exams.


###  Exercise before studying

This could be doing any type of physical activity that will help to increase
your energy levels as it will lead to endorphins being released. This will get
your heart pumping and help you to study later. Exercise can help the brain get
ready to learn and makes retaining information easier.


###  Learn content with the intention of teaching it

This helps to organize the information in our brain in a more logical way. It
also helps us understand the main points and ignore irrelevant facts. It will
cause you to engage with material in a more effective way.


###  Be aware of how you study best and what you are trying to achieve and approach

If you are aware of your own strengths and weaknesses you can change your
studying approaches to best fit them. If you are able to critically analyze how
you think it can change how you approach tasks and the strategies you use to
problem solve. If you reflect on your progress you will be more motivated to
reach your goals and more confident during exams.


###  Mix things up

Drill yourself on different concepts and do not focus on just one thing. Mix up
your practice and space different concepts apart. You will see how concepts can
differ or fit together.


###  Stick to a regular routine and get good sleep before an exam

Getting a good night's sleep before an exam is obvious. But what is not is to be
sure to have a consistent sleep schedule before an exam which means sticking to
a regular routine even a month before it. It comes down to you making sleep a
high priority. That may require changing your habits such as limiting your use
of phones and other screens.


###  Zone in on what you are doing and stop trying to multitask

Find a quiet and clean workspace to study, without distractions such as our
phone or people so you can take the time to understand and apply what you have
learned. Multitasking has been proven to slow you down because it creates
interference that blocks learning, and ruins your ability to think deeply about
what you're learning. When you multitask your brain has to switch over from
doing on.


###  Always ask “Why?”

This encourages you to apply the new facts with things you already know. This
improves your memory for the new fact by giving you more ways to find it. This
will force you to ask why a fact is true.